from Ukraine to Gaza the world seems
more divided and uncertain than it's
been for years Global powers and Western
alliances have been put to the test and
amid the turmoil China is rising to
challenge the world order Chinese
president Xi Jinping now in his third
term in office has high ambitions
[Music]
territorial disputes have sparked fears
of a larger conflict that could have
Regional and Global implications you
have approached the waters near Chinese
J including in the contested Waters of
the South China Sea your curse leave and
keep F over and in Taiwan where the
threat of a Chinese military Invasion
looms
larger meanwhile at home attacks on
basic freedoms and human rights have
become more severe like in Shin Jang
where China continues to commit serious
human rights abuses some say a genocide
against the weager Muslims so how far
will China's autocratic Vision reach and
will long simmering tension with the
West hit a boiling
point I'm M Hassen and I've come here to
London's legendary Conway Hall to go
head-to-head with Victor gal he's vice
president of of the center for China and
globalization in Beijing former
interpreter for the late Chinese leader
Deng shiao ping and a proud defender of
the People's Republic I'll ask him about
China's Global Ambitions and its
aggressive Crackdown on human rights and
civil
liberties tonight I'll also be joined by
three experts Steven Chan a professor at
the University of London's School of
Oriental and African studies rahan Assad
a human rights lawyer of weer Heritage
and Martin Jake author of the bestseller
when China rules the world and a
political commentator on
[Music]
[Applause]
China Victor gal thank you so much for
joining me on head-to head this evening
here in London thank you for having me
China has upped its military spending
it's expanding its nuclear Arsenal it
now has the biggest Navy in the world
Chinese president Xi Jinping has said
that the country's military should be
capable of quote fighting and winning
wars and told the military to focus all
your energy on fighting improve your
capability to win Victor who do you want
to fight and who do you want to win
against first of all the Chinese
military spending is the second largest
in the world but it is only a fraction
of that of the United States and China
has a very uh difficult geopolitical
situation China has 14 land and
neighboring countries all together and
six Maritime Nations uh for China
therefore China's defense defensive in
nature is not for fighting anyone except
those who want to invade China or to
launch a war against China China's
military spending is for peace rather
than war and War will be forced upon
China and China need to fight back you
say it's for peace but your neighbors
don't agree your neighbors are pretty
worried about you you go through the
list Japan has sounded the alarm saying
your military buildup is very serious
concern to them India is worried about
China on its border and the Philippines
president has warned that China is
becoming a more pronounced and worrisome
threat he says those are the elected
governments of countries representing
over 1.6 billion people in Asia this is
not the United States this is not the
West this is Asian neighbors saying
we're worried about China may you
mentioned the three of the neighboring
countries of China uh let's talk about
one of them one each of them very
quickly Japan unconditionally
surrendered not only to the United
States but also to China in
1945 and if you read very carefully the
unconditional surrender document that
Japan signed then you will know how
Japan need to conduct its foreign
affairs as well as its military troops
uh with China and with all those
countries that Japan unconditionally
surrendered for India is a great nation
and there is a territorial dispute
between China and India but that dispute
was not created by China neither was it
created by India it was created or left
behind by the British Indian uh
government that's great history lesson
but right now China in 24 the defense
spending is going up by 7% the most for
5 years you've had 29 consecutive years
of military expenditure growth the most
of any country in the world since 2022
China has increased military drills
around Taiwan it's escalated since the
new Taiwanese president was inaugurated
in May China is not a fan of him since
then there's been almost daily activity
involving China's warships drones cyber
attacks against Taiwan China is getting
ready to invade Taiwan isn't it there is
only one China Taiwan is part of China
and the government of the People's
Republic of China is the sole legitimate
government for the totality of China the
exact status between the two sides of
the Taiwan state is The Unfinished Civil
War back in
1949 so ever since the beginning of the
1980s China does not want to use a war
to solve this unification problem you
don't want to use a war but you're
surrounding it with ships drones cyber
attacks and making lots of threats each
time when the separatists in Taiwan want
to push the edge of the envelope they
will come across more and more
demonstration of the commitment of the
Chinese Nation to eventually achieve
peaceful reunification or otherwise
that's the lious test your defense
minister said anyone who dares to pursue
independence for Taiwan will be crushed
into pieces and face destruction sounds
like a truly peaceful guy that's a real
statement because if the separatists if
the separatists really want to put P the
edge of the envelope with the aid of
some big country for example which wants
to use Taiwan as a proxy in its own
geopolitical rivalry against China then
wait until you see what will happen
reunification will be achieved and China
is the only permanent member of the
United Nations security Council which
has not yet achieved a complete
reunification what I'm what I I'm always
amused with this phrase reunification
because if it's one China that clearly
it's not One China clearly you're
accepting by definition if you need to
reunify it they are doing their own
thing and why this obsession with Taiwan
you are a country of 3.7 million square
miles a population 60 times that of
Taiwan economy 20 times the size of
Taiwan why are you obsessed with Taiwan
why not just leave them be in terms of
Defending China's sovereignty and
territorial Integrity any inch of land
is not one inch too much any one single
person is not one one person too many so
we need to achieve reunification as even
though they don't want to be part of
your country 12% of the people of Taiwan
say they want to reunify with China
12% you can't get more unpopular than
that in thaty it's not up to the people
in Taiwan to decide about the one China
policy you're very blunt in your
disregard for people's views freedoms
dignity you say that you don't care
about what they think you also said in
an interview with the French newspaper
lemond once we get the island back we'll
have to ask everyone's Origins those who
have Japanese ancestry who you basicly
say cons constitute 10% of the
population will have to pledge loyalty
to reunification and writing otherwise
will'll have to help them leave you're
basically calling for the ethnic
cleansing of 2.3 million people in
Taiwan no you remember back in
1945 when Japan unconditionally
surrendered a lot of people in Taiwan
who originally came from Japan they were
the rulers of uh Taiwan at the time they
stay behind because of the magnanimity
of the Chinese Nation now several
decades later they account for about 10%
of the local population in Taiwan now if
you really do your homework you will
realize that those Die Hard Taiwanese
separatists include many of these
Japanese but okay but you would get rid
of them you would get rid of 2.3 million
people no after the reunification
everyone in Taiwan need to make a pledge
whether they acknowledge there is only
one China and Taiwan is part of China
and if they don't make that pledge they
us those who pledge wow for the one
China policy they are local you didn't
by the way you didn't say everyone you
said of Japanese descent that is
literally ethnical you're picking people
by their ethnic Heritage making them do
a loyalty test otherwise they have to
get out of the country they've is not a
loyalty test here for example in Britain
if you are a British citizen you need to
support the monarchy you cannot say I no
I'm standing in Britain don't support
the monarchy I don't like King Charles
no you cannot say no I just said it m I
literally just said it you cannot take
any action to oppose the monarchy system
but I don't have to sign a pledge saying
I support King Charles well each country
is different we are talking about China
China is very and China has one policy
which is part of the Constitution
involves people in Taiwan who don't want
to be part of your country let's bring
in our panel who are waiting to come in
and join let's see what they think I'm
joined by Steven uh Chan professor at
the University of London School of
Oriental and African studies um if
you're in Taiwan today how worried are
you about Al looming Invasion I'm not in
Taiwan today I'm going to be visiting
next year I've been there five times in
all of the great cities of Taiwan and
what I've noticed most conspicuously is
that nobody I've talked to wants to
rejoin or reunify with China because of
their sense of freedom and their sense
of
self-determination so I think that if
you're going to say our sovereignty
matters more than your desire for your
own self-determination and freedom then
you're doing something that will not
make you popular in Taiwan and you won't
win the argument for Chinese sovereignty
over the island Martin uh Martin Jakes
is here with us author of the
bestselling book when China rules the
world Martin you've said in the past
that China cannot should not be seen
through a solely Western lens so I and I
agree with you and there's issues there
but I began the show by asking Victor
about Japan and India and the
Philippines separate Taiwan just the
issues in the region do you think China
is responsible for some of those issues
all of those issues none of those issues
well China is obviously involved in
inevitably in all of those issues um I
think that uh that actually if you look
at the rise of China over the last you
know 30 40 years spectacular biggest
change we've ever seen in history really
and uh inevitably that is changing
everything in the region in the world uh
that doesn't but the remarkable thing
I'd say Med about China's R is how you
quoted the military figures and so on
but China has not fought any wars since
1979 if you compare that with America
Europe Japan at the same stage of
development they were they were
extremely aggressive um let's talk human
rights Victor you've called Wagers in
China's shinjang Province your brothers
and sisters how do you feel about the
fact that at least half a million some
say more of your brothers and sisters
are being detained in camps by the
Chinese government that's 5% % of the
adult weager population one of the
highest imprisonment detention rates in
the world Med the weagles are proud
ethnic group one of the
56 ethnic nationalities in China The
Wiggles as far as I'm concerned are my
true brothers and sisters I know many of
them I travel to Shin Jang regularly and
I talk to many other wigos now if anyone
is serious about accusing China of
practicing mass in Justice to the
weagles give me the evidence I think
just did Human Rights Watch say half a
million people detained over the years
in recent years you keep quote Human
Rights Watch and I tell you do you know
where they got those numbers from I
don't know can I tell you I I don't know
I thought you were the exper you to
shinjang you've spoken to wegers you
never heard these numbers I do not know
where did they get the source so their
source is the shinjang high people's
procurator uh which has published its
own statistics shinjang official body
which says it's convicted 54 4,826
people prosecuted in the region since
2017 the United Nations office for human
rights looked at satellite footage they
say 10 to 20% of the population amnesty
estimates a million people in camps half
a million is a conservative number many
if you called that organization please
be assured that that organization has
been completely discredited for the
false information they every so this I
love this game we're playing you give
give me a source I give you a source
they're discredited they've said
falsehoods how can let me ask you a
question how many people are in
detention in shinjang you give me a
number listen if you look at sh you give
me a number if you look and I do not
have the number why not yeah hold on you
can't say it's not half a million and
then say you don't have a number I have
a number I have sources how many people
do you think a det let me give you my
reason no I go to shinjang a lot I
travel almost your brothers and sisters
you go there a lot but you can't tell me
how many people are in detention listen
they are happier they enjoy their life
they enjoy their Muslim practice and
traditions listen how many people are in
detention Victor many let me be
philosophical no don't be philosophical
be numerical how many people are in
detention you said not to no to half a
million how about okay let's quarter of
a million let me let me let me finish my
point nope if you answer the question
you can't filibuster Victor on the show
anyone many do think Independence they
will be dwelt with in how many of them
are in court and how many detention the
very small minority so you don't have a
number you say they're all happy but you
won't let in dependent investigators you
won't letting journalists to go there
why not there I will be happy to escort
you to Jing Jang really I can make that
promise I will speak to the Chinese
government here's the problem Chinese I
don't want escort I don't want minders I
want to go freely will you allow that I
do not made that decision oh a moment
ago you were going to make all sorts of
interruptions suddenly I said let me go
freely and speak to weas freely can I do
that with no minders no Chinese
government escort I will be happy to
make your case oh just now you said
you'd organize it now we're about make a
case you can't guarantee uh rahan Assad
is a senior fellow at the Atlantic
Council international human rights
lawyer you are a weager uh who Victor
says brothers and sisters your literal
brother has been held in an internment
camp in shinjang since 2016 I believe
rahan tell us what happened to your
brother and what is your response to
Victor to what you've heard and what is
the latest on your brother if you don't
mind sharing with us yeah my brother
Akbar Assad is a prominent Tech
entrepreneur in fact your own media
Outlet called him bright star in the
tech world right before his detention he
was invited on a state Galla dinner and
then he disappeared how could you
explain
now M again in China we have about 20
Muslim ethnic groups you need to ask one
question why the extremism existed
mostly among the wial communities
because there are extremists among the
wigo community who want to separate Shin
Jang away from your brother been
convicted of any supported by CIA and
other Western
organizations that's the real truth hold
on talk to the hazaks they don't support
has your brother been convicted of a
crime um according to un there's no
trial has taken place he just forcibly
disappeared actually it amount the en
Force disappearance but according to the
Chinese government he committed a crime
of inciting ethnic discrimination while
he's a systematically oppressed and when
I challenge that decision because under
under the Chinese law if you're
committed with the alleged crime that
you you have three years sentences but
he got 15 years how do you in justify
that then they switch the crime so how
do you even explain this is a rule of
law system you mentioned that if people
are not pro- independent then they're
fine in shinjang my brother by no means
is pro- independent in fact your media
Outlet sees daily media invited him to
exchange information did he split the
country when he visited beij you okay
with the treatment of her brother M in
front of this very Augusto body let me
make several very brief points the real
crime involved by some of the wigo
people are agitating for shinjang
Independence they violate the one China
policy Now set separate from that you
know different communities May F find
their own different problems which need
to be sorted out in the cuse of Law and
I hope but our brother's been detained
for eight years well I did not know the
ch I hope I can help you to really look
at the case at the accusation against
him I hope your brother is not guilty of
inciting for separatism of Shing Jang if
that is the case then let the law take
its CA well your media out that called
him a model citizen who is a promoter of
ethnic unity in sh have you been able to
speak to your brother or no not at all
like you know for eight years he's
forcibly disappeared um up until like
last months for the first time my
parents saw him what kind of justice
system is that you're making a mockery
you're not just detaining them Victor
they're being tortured numerous
testimonies the UN has collected are you
okay with that M when you talk about
torture think about Guantanamo Bay
prison oh my word rather than in Shin
Jang Shin Jang is a place of great peace
and
stability hold on Victor the accounts of
detainees include being beaten with
Batts electric Batts while strapped in a
So-Cal tiger ch
158 being subjected to interrogation
with water poured on their faces
prolonged solitary confinement forced to
sit motionless on stools for long
periods like this you're okay with this
this is the proud China probably you are
reading the case in Iraq committed by
the American solders I'm reading the U
report in August 2022 from detainees who
came out of camps in Shin Jang you're
brothers and sisters but these brothers
and sisters you don't seem to give a
damn about how do you know any torture
happened in Iraq out of Interest I know
how I know for sure how I talked to the
Iraqi Ambassador in Beijing okay he wept
in front of me and I'm sure Ran's
parents have wept and you don't seem to
care and I hope you will tell your
brother be a staunch supporter of one
China policy be a proud
Chinese she can't tell him cuz she can't
speak to him because you deny access
Victor Victor she can't speak to him are
you going to arrange it are you going to
arrange a visit now I'd be happy to help
you make a phone call there's a lot of
promises being made here guys you should
uh follow up on this office you are all
Witnesses we Are Witnesses indeed let me
bring in Martin Jake Martin when you
hear people say basically there's no
torture everyone's making it up there's
nobody in detention come on that's
ridiculous is it not Martin well I mean
I don't know all the details of the
situation in ch Shin Jang but clearly
there's been a big problem for a long
time in Shin Jang in terms of the
relationship between the weer and the
Han and that came to a head in 2009
when there was a demonstration and 200
people were killed by by the weer then
the Chinese Chinese inflicted the same
kind of damage on the so this is not
this is this is a deep problem in my
view and it's not easily passed up
there's no other problem in China of
this kind yeah but people consider
that's a pretty big problem it's a very
big problem for them yeah and I do the
other thing bet I'd say is that um um
the point that's being made about
separatism is true that I think that
what the 30 million Muslims in China the
ha is the biggest single minority they
have they are completely integrated but
the problem the problem is shin Jang is
clearly the issue of separatism Stephen
let me ask you this question Victor's
making a lot of promises tonight about
me going to shinjang and rean going to
Shin everyone's going to be
fine how how safe how okay are you with
visiting China how how free do you think
you are when you go to China when I go
to China and I haven't been for some
time I'm watched almost
247 there's always someone I can spot is
trailing me so I know when my hotel room
is upgraded suddenly to a spacious Suite
I'm now in a place which is bugged so
someone who's a mild critic and a
scholarly critic like me doesn't feel
safe in China by contrast I feel safer
in time iwan Victor when you hear Steven
say he doesn't feel that safe going to
China prefers going to Taiwan when we
talk about freedom of speech for example
in China I live in the United States of
America where I can say that Donald
Trump is a I don't know hypothetically
an orang faed
narcissist I also live here in the UK
I'm British here you have Rishi sunak
the former prime minister was called a
pints siiz Loser by a labor
politician um no one in China has that
kind of fright freedom to talk about
their government to talk about President
Xi Jinping in that way you can't say
anything like you wouldn't dare say
anything like that because you know what
will happen to you when you go home you
know what will happen to your family
that's what China is M if you do
anything write anything email or chat to
your friends about taking any action
against let's say prime minister of
Britain president of the United States
you'll be dwelt with swiftly Victor
you're a master of not what I said I
said was called a pint-sized loser would
you call Xi Jinping a pint-sized loser
many each country has different
sensitivities in UK so you're admitting
you can't criticize the Chinese
government no no no you can criticize
the government if you are positive inity
you can criticize the government if
you're positive is that the new
philosophy no if you can come up with
your you got to come up with nice
insults no what then constructive advice
constructive advice for example in
dealing with a aging population what
should be the government do what should
this governor should do but you can't
say the president's lied he's a liar
nothing you will be DeWalt with very
swiftly in China you cannot say that
that is the most honest thing you've
said tonight uh Victor gal we're going
to take a break that's part one of
head-to-head with our guest vict to gal
in part two we'll be talking about
President Xi Jinping we'll be talking
about the issue of dictatorship and
we'll hear from our very patient
audience here in London's Conway Hall
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome back to head-to-head on Al jazer
English my guest this week is Victor gal
former interpreter to the late Chinese
leader Den Shao ping vice president of
the center for China and globalization
in Beijing and an Ardent promoter of the
People's Republic we're also joined by
an expert panel here in London's Conway
Hall and a live audience who we're going
to hear from shortly Victor before we
get to the audience in 2019 on this very
show I asked the question is she being
gearing up to be president for Life
dictator in Chief I mean he's the most
powerful leader of China since Ma he's
abolished presidential term limits he's
now in his third five-year term as
president so I'll ask again tonight is
he now president for Life a true
dictator for the record first of all
Chinese president XI jining will never
be president for Life there will be a
time limit when it will be will be
handled according to the Chinese legal
system and Constitution secondly there
is no dictator in China why because
dictatorship simply doesn't work
democracy means modernization and how
can you explain profound transformation
of China over the past 45 years in China
if you have dictatorship or
authoritarian rule no every leader in
China will be put into a team and
teamwork will be much more important
than individualism Victor maybe previous
president did maybe Jang zamin or huin
everyone knows xiin ping has centralized
power Consolidated power got rid of term
limits you say there's a way to get rid
of him but there isn't actually a legal
way to get rid of him he's in power for
life and he likes being a dictator why
are we pretending Med allow me to remind
you the Communist Party of China which
is the ruling party of China has a
membership of up to 100 million people
it's well structured every Province
every state owned Enterprise Etc will
have a part cell
there's no division or debate within the
Chinese Communist Party listen to me no
single person in China can dictate to a
population of 1.4 billion people and 100
million membership of the Communist
Party of China okay let's test that
that's a mission impossible Let's test
that proposition the president won a
vote last year won a vote I'll put that
in air quotes do you know the tally of
last year's presidential vote in favor
of Xi Jinping by the national people's
Congress part of that structure you just
advertised to us what was the vote can
you tell our audience here I think it's
up to about 100% that doesn't
2,952 to zero yes that's exactly what I
said could you not find a few people
just to make it look a little even one
or two many it's not surprising it's not
surprising 2952 to
zero one R the Chinese system everyone
supports the Chinese president that's
you just told us 10 seconds ago there's
this huge system a big party one guy and
then you're like oh no but everyone
supports him zero votes against him one
person out of 3,000 couldn't say she
jining not my guy one what if he is the
guy for all the Communist Party of China
you never know know well if that's the
case then your entire first answer is
redundant because it doesn't matter if
there's 100 million people they all have
to follow the leader no he does command
huge respect among the Chinese people as
well as you say respect I say fear do
you know how many names were on the
ballot papers that were given in
2013 how many names were on the ballot
paper when they went to choose the
president can you tell our audience I
think there is only one candidate yeah
there were no no no other
names that's a real that's a real secure
leader a guy who knows he has the
confidence of his people you get to vote
but only for me and none of you can
actually vote against me would you not
want to end up in a situation with six
prime ministers in 8 years yeah so you
prefer a dictatorship no we prefer a
system that works for the benefit of the
Chinese people I I have not said a word
about what works or not you got great
economic growth look at the
dictatorship there is no dictatorship M
you just admitted that there's no name
on the ballot paper no votes against him
and they all just follow him that's the
dictatorship Med when you have a say by
name multiple times after but it's a
dictator how many candidates are there
on the ballot paper how many what king
Queen when the king succeeds the queen
how many candidates are there on the
ballet paper how many how many does that
make Britain not a democracy well you're
asking the wrong guy I'm a republican so
I think we should be a full democracy
and get rid of the monarchy and I can
say that here you can't say that in
China you cannot take any action against
that yes I can actually I can go out on
the street I can hold up a placard and
say let's get rid of King Charles I can
create a whole protest outside
Buckingham Palace you can't do that in
China you can't even put one other
person's name on a ballot paper that's
how insecure Your Leader is I'm I'm a
lawyer in my capacity as a lawyer I can
give you a long list of things that you
cannot do regarding the monarchy here in
I'm not debating that I'm saying that we
have an elected government we get to
choose we get to swap six Prime
Ministers God help us but we get to pick
everyone in this room who's a citizen
gets to pick listen you end up with your
mini budget which bankrupt the whole
country that's an honest answer Victor
but Victor I admire that because that's
an honest answer your answer is it's a
dictatorship that works at least say
that no no no you can't you keep dodging
one minute you say it's not a doip then
I show you it is you say but it's
working we've got growth my pick one myy
if that is your point I will seriously
urge you to do more homework about how
the Chinese system works okay let's talk
about the Chinese system because I did a
little bit of homework a little bit of
homework it's it's it's did you know
that Xi Jinping put his name in the
Constitution that's weird well the
leader of the country put his own name
in the Constitution while he's president
no has done that since Ma none of the
other Chinese presidents not huin taau
not your old boss Deng Xiao ping none of
them did it did they or am I wrong it's
wrong uh did the Chinese Constitution
has been most frequently amended
compared with any other country am I
wrong about what I just said with my
name was put into the Constitution I D's
name was put into the while he was
president and J's name was put into the
not while they were sitting presidents
and you know that tell our crowd here
not while they were president they
didn't do it themselves according to
recollection each of were put into the
cons while they were while the leaders
were still alive okay so I'm right not
while they were president I love the
little slip even Donald Trump one of the
great narcissists of our time has not
proposed yet putting his name into the
US Constitution if you are the president
of China you're elected without any
opponents no names on the ballot paper
zero votes against you you put your name
in the Constitution six-year-olds are
taught about Xi Jinping thought in
primary school that is not just the
dictatorship that is a cult of
personality I don't think China believes
in personal uh so why are six-year-olds
learning about Xi Jinping thought I'm
pretty sure no six-year-olds learned
about Liz truss's mini
budget Victor the Chinese system is such
that once you Orient the country in One
Direction everyone follows the suit do
they follow or they ordered to follow
they don't follow out a choice no it's
like a vehicle with four wheels here you
have four wheels aligned in different
directions in directions in China the
four wheels of a car all lined up in One
Direction They Don't going forward they
don't Victor let me give you an example
former for the Chinese way former
foreign minister chin gang was removed
from his post and has not been seen in
public since June 2023 a few months
later China's defense minister General
Lee Shang Fu disappeared from public
view for months has now been expelled
from the party accused of corruption
that's at least two ministers that
disappeared just in the last year with
apologies to Oscar wild to lose one
Minister might be unfortunate to lose
two is careless is it not do you know
the point I want to make this means
China is really merciless in dealing
with Corruption of all kinds even among
the foreign minister and defense Min
imagine Anthony blinkin and Lloyd Austin
just disappeared tomorrow we don't know
where they are we've never seen them
again that's not normal Victor listen
corruption is rampant how do we know
they're corrupt they just disappeared
where's the
trial the tri finish my point Corruption
of all kinds in China need to be dwelt
with so where's the trial mercilessness
so where's the trial where's the trial
of the former for is we don't even know
where he is many those things you don't
know doesn't mean doesn't happen where
is the trial for this man you're just
accusing of corruption Chang was my good
friend for more than 20 years where is
he then he is involved in corruption
where is he and he is dwelt with very
swiftly where is he Victor regardless of
your good friend you don't know where he
is regardless of where is the for
foreign minister of China this is not a
hard question we're not asking where
Ran's brother in the middle of shin Jang
is that you can dodge where is the
former foreign minister of China who
disappeared and by the way he wasn't
accused of corruption the spokesman came
out and said he has health reasons then
corruption came later by the way where
did he go your friend that means there
is a process and the process the process
starts with one lie that he's ill and
then the next lie is he's corrupt he may
be ill you never know I mean he's
probably ill after he's been in a
Chinese prison may be ill now you never
know but at least gong lost his job
because of his corruption last question
that's the point where is he he's
somewhere in China you will never see
him he is among the 1.4 billion people
no it's not just him there's many other
people who have disappeared the previous
defense minister disappeared the
ministry of industry and Technology
disappeared the former Interpol
president disappeared in China you just
disappear if they don't like you that's
the rule of law in China I'm so happy
they disappear because if they keep
doing their job they will bring greater
dis be careful what you wish for cuz
everyone's watching this show and if you
get something wrong tonight maybe you
disappear if I is a beer I hope you will
bail me
out I'd have to find you first and China
is apparently a big country um I want to
bring in uh Steven Chan professor at the
University of London's School of
Oriental African studies um Stephen XI
jinping's policies his Crackdown on
dissident I mean China was never a
democracy other presidents were also
dictatorial but can we agree that
xinping is on a different level when it
comes to repression at home the
consolidation of power I assume you
disagree with Victor's description of
him as part of a I don't know four-wheel
car all driving in the same Direction
Happily he certainly Consolidated his
power he is a very very strong president
and I think that the real test of all of
this is how China has treated Hong Kong
with the increasing clampdown on dissent
and free expression of opinion when they
were meant to have a degree of freedom
in a one country two system way of
approaching life we can't see any
evidence of vibrant debate in China and
I note that one of the great
disappointments of my life is when I
read Chinese acad mic works everyone TOS
a party line no one does independent
research to publish as it were anything
critical of for instance not just Gan
ping anything critical about Chinese
foreign policy or they might disappear
they might not get promoted in any case
rahan assat is a senior fellow at the
Atlantic Council international human
rights law rahan in part one we' talked
in depth about uh the repression against
the weers and your own personal
situation in 2014 Xi Jinping privately
called for an allout struggle quote
against terrorism and to show absolutely
no mercy after a visit to shinjang how
much do you believe Xi Jinping is
driving what's happening in Shin Jang
how much do you think he's responsible
for the repression in China well the
matter of the fact is that all of it
happened under current Administration
right so many scholars are attributing
to him it happened under his Reign he's
the one who said absolutely no mercy um
stamping out roots and branches of the
ERS breaking out their connection and
these are the policies implemented under
his leadership so it's very hard to
separate XI Jin ping from the current
policy shinan Martin Jake's author of
the best selling book when China rules
the world you you heard Victor talk
about well we can't be a dictatorship
because we're doing so well the economy
is doing amazing we don't have Liz trust
mini budgets Etc but then you get into
the debate about can dictatorship and
growth coexist do you need to have
democracy to go alongside that and I
think about the pandemic Martin and I
think about China's reaction to the
pandemic is that where the dictatorship
the lack of transparency the
disappearances caught up with China
because of course there was a black hole
in China in terms of China's censorship
methods its Draconian policies the zero
Co policy the Crackdown which led some
people say to over a million two million
deaths we saw protests in buildings
people screaming was that a moment where
China actually collided with reality and
said this system it it can't survive
longterm well I beg to differ okay on
the question of the pandemic because
actually for two years uh uh uh 2020 and
2021 actually China did under the
circumstances extremely well and Well
outperformed the West and the reasons
for it are quite complicated uh you've
got to take into a very different kind
of system now one of the problems with
the discussion I think uh uh so far on
this question is that uh the country it
sounds as if the country doesn't work if
you say dictator despot all these
I but if and and you say not you
personally but and one says there's no
discussion this is I think this is
absolutely untrue so what we're
presenting here is not an accurate
picture we've got it's not about
accurate picture it's about balance
right so I I don't deny what you're
saying but you're British you would
think it was a political earthquake if
the foreign secretary and the defense
secretary disappeared in the space of
six months not arrested disappeared
surely yeah yeah and and there is
something on look Ching gong was was a
friend of mine as well and I don't know
what's happened to him and I think it is
odd certainly to our eyes it's we weird
that this can happen but uh but I think
that the thing is that we've got to try
and get Beyond cardboard cutouts when
we're talking about China and understand
how it really works okay um let's bring
in our audience who've been waiting here
in London's Conway Hall I'm going to go
to the yes the lady there on the fourth
row yes you
my question is as a disident from Hong
Kong knowing that I cannot express
freely in Hong Kong or in the UK without
risking other people in trouble I also
know that you just now made claims about
there's free speech in China and it's
possible to criticize the Chinese
government just now again can you please
demonstrate that free speech and tell us
what are siin Ping's two worst mistakes
in the past five years great question if
you can demonstrate to us that it's okay
to criticize shping the Chinese
government and China or even just say
she kind of resembles winning the Poo
will be good enough for me thank you
Victor do you want to take that question
well thank you I would say uh China need
to make more prompt uh take more prompt
actions in dealing with the dramatic uh
aging population in China and the
dramatic uh demographic decline do you
think XI Jin Ping's to blame for not
being fast enough on Aging no I think uh
the whole Chinese government including
the Central Committee State council
local government need to take actions
quickly to reverse that dramatic uh
aging population problem and demographic
we're not going to get a criticism out
of VI let's go back to the audience uh
let's go to the gentleman here in the
tie yes you yeah Alex sorry Alex Vin
some chatam house my my question is uh
debt so there's been very bad riots for
example it's been in the news in Kenya
some of that debt that's causing the
problem is owed to China so the question
is is how is China uh going to handle
the increasing uh pressures for debt
cancellation uh at least 17 African
countries are in particular distress
this year thank
you I understand the Chinese debt in
these large scale uh connectivity
projects is only a small portion of the
overall national debt because they own
debt to the United States to Britain to
the international uh financing uh
institutions Etc they not just own debt
to China but to many other countries
that's the reality secondly there is
accusation about the death trap which is
completely wrong and false because if
you want to do connectivity project
major project finance things you need to
have Equity as well as debt debt is an
indispensable part of the packaging okay
let's go back to the audience um I Sate
this gentlemen the time then go to the
back then we go to that gentleman there
you next after this
one my name is Sonam frazzi I would like
to ask you a question on
Tibet I was born in Tibet before the
Chinese invasion of Tibet unfortunately
1.2 million Tibetans have died since and
we have been made
refugees my question is Tibet after 74
years of Chinese rule is still under
lockdown no journalists no individual
tourists no even Tibetans are not
allowed to see their families what is
China afraid of to keep keep Tibet in
such a tight control and Tibetans is
such a inhuman existence in our own
country sir ever since the UN Dynasty if
not even earlier Tibet has been part of
China through different dynasties
different historical period
I can assure you during your lifetime
and mine Tibet will always be part of
China why are you so insistent on ruling
places that don't want to be ruled by
China no Tibet we've been through Tibet
Taiwan they're not happy in
shinjang Tibet being part of China
doesn't depend on whether you like it or
not it's a mega trend of our time a mega
Trend and you need to accept that before
you will feel free to go back to
China visit Tibet
you sound like you're threatening the
man no I'm not he said you have to
accept that before you can go back he's
from that place you live in peace in
Britain that's good but he's a refugee
but if you want to go back to Tibet
acknowledge Tibet is part of China
period And what if he doesn't he can't
go back to his home you cannot go
back because China doesn't want to see
anyone advocating for the independence
of Tibet why can't no way there will
that will never happen Victor why can't
China rest on its own merits why the
bullying and the threats we're going to
break you to pieces Taiwan you can't go
back until you sign this document or
that declar why the insecurity second
biggest economy in the world major power
you sound so insecure China security
rests on the principle that there is
only one China and Taiwan is part of
China Tibet is part of China and Shing
Jang is part of China period And even if
the people there don't want to be part
of it you don't give a damn the majority
of the people live happily as Chinese
ciens did you do a vote I will go with
you to we're going to go to Tibet and
we're going to talk to all the Tibetan I
can go to Tibet but the guy who's from
there can't go there you sound ludicrous
when you say this stuff I'm sorry to say
let us go back to audience gentle at the
back and then this gentleman here my
name is a Isa alun I am a British Ur
except
ran and my question for many in the U
diaspora
we have not been allowed
contact with our families at home visin
the UR autonomous region since
2017 when Chinese government started
detaining more than 3 million plus ERS
into their Hightech surveillance
concentration camps my question to you
sir what's the Chinese government trying
to hide from us
second okay why can't we why can't we
not talk freely with our families
okay another yet another weager so many
Wagers the same story the same questions
I'm always very happy to see Wherever I
Go a wegle person because I do consider
The Wiggles as my brothers and sisters
on one condition part of me starting to
feel sorry for your actual brothers and
sisters I'll be honest on one on one on
one condition though Wiggles need to
acknowledge that Shin Jang is part of
China that's a big precondition if you
do not accept that precondition you are
not my brother or sister hold on so he
that's fine you don't have to be
brothers and sisters but can he not talk
to his family it depends on where your
family is there are indeed a wo
separatists who want to promote
separatism of Wiggle turn what about the
people who are not separ just disappear
turn Shin Jang into East turkistan this
will never happen listen to this call
your friends
to stick to the one CH policy he just
wants to talk on the phone to a family
member years I didn't speak to my mother
I want to speak to my mother I am
British I want to speak to my mother do
you understand literally support One
China policy support being part of China
Victor period do you have no heart to
see this man who can't speak to his 82y
old mother separ I wish your mother is
here in this Hall talking to you and why
you let her go maybe she could but then
on one condition in China Zero Tolerance
of any separatist movement 82 year- old
woman is a threat to China what does
that say about China I hope she's not a
separatist but if she's a separatist she
will be dwelt with by law period Victor
before we finish I have one question for
you we're in the UK we're in Conway Hall
historic Free Speech Society could we do
a show like this could I interview you
like this could rahan come be on a panel
like this in Beijing in say the Beijing
International Convention Center can we
do a show like this audience members
freely ask questions you take questions
from everyone no one's vetted no one's
threatened could we do this in Beijing
medy if you ask me to line up all the
support you will do that really I can
assure you that a show where every
audience member gets to speak freely No
One turns up at their house afterwards
for many European countries you do not
need a visa to go to China pick up your
luggage buy a ticket ask I'm not asking
foreigners Victor asking foreigners to
come I'm saying could a Chinese audience
turn up and ask whatever they want
criticize Xi Jinping criticize the
government ask you questions talk about
weers could you do it in Beijing m in
China don't criticize our president so
we couldn't do this unless you have glad
you positive constructive proposal to
make from criticism from the horse's
mouth don't criticize unless it's posi
is not the only goal criticism with
constructive purposes will be a better
free speech free speech is goal we
cherish on this show I'm glad to have
offered you a platform for free speech I
wish you could offer me one back Victor
gal thank you for your time thank you to
the audience in Conway Hall and thank
you to everyone at home for watching
this episode of head 10
[Music]
[Applause]